AWSenv
======

AWSenv - A puny little script to enable switching between different AWS API keys
for different accounts.


If you, like me, work with more than one Amazon AWS account this script will help
you by ajusting your environment variables, from one account to another.


Basically, think of RVM.... and you get the idea.


### Install

Copy _**awsenv.sh**_ anywhere in your PATH.

Add to your _**~/.bashrc**_

    export  AWSENV_PROFILES_DIR="~/work/awsenv/profiles"
    export AWSENV_TEMPLATES_DIR="~/work/awsenv/templates" # optional
    source /path/to/awsenv.sh


If necessary, reopen your terminal to activate it.


As an extra, add to your PS1 variable the now available function __*__awsenv_ps1*__


### Setup

First you create a *__profiles__* dir which is a base to hold all your credentials.
For each Amazon account you create a second directory which holds at least 3 files:

    - aws-credential-file.cfg
    - cert-XXXXX.pem
    - pk-XXXXXXX.pem


Those files must be created by you. *__'aws-credential-file.cfg'__* must have the
following format:


    AWSAccessKeyId=<<your-access-key>>
    AWSSecretKey=<<your-secret-key>>


The *__pk/cert__* files are a self-signed X509 certificate generated by you. To
create such files take a look at [generating a X509 by yourself](https://gist.github.com/4177939).


When done, you will have something like this:


    /path/to/dir
      |
      +- profiles/
      |    +- account1/
      |    |    +- aws-credential-file.cfg
      |    |    +- cert-XXXXX.pem
      |    |    +- pk-XXXXXXX.pem
      |    |
      |    +- account2/
      |    |    +- aws-credential-file.cfg
      |    |    +- cert-YYYYY.pem
      |    |    +- pk-YYYYYYY.pem
      ...
      +- templates/
           +- .file1.cfg
           +- .file2.cfg
      ...


### Using

    $ awsenv-ls                     # list all profiles.
    $ awsenv-set PROFILE_NAME       # activate PROFILE_NAME, if exists.
    $ awsenv-generate PROFILE_NAME  # generate configs from templates. See next.



### Using templates

Some tools do not read directly from AWS environment variables. Generally they
have some local config file with your credentials inside.

In this scenario, if you switch credentials you would probably have to edit each
file manually to update it. To prevent this a simplistic template approach is
used.

Inside a *__template__* dir, defined by the variable *__awsenv_template_dir__*
you can copy each config file to it and edit for your credentials.

After that, you call *__awsenv-generate__* for each account you want:


    awsenv-generate  account1
    awsenv-generate  account2


#### Examples:

For [Tim Kay's AWS Perl script](http://timkay.com/aws/):

    # .awssecret
    __my_access_key__
    __my_secret_key__



For [CLAWS - command line AWS](https://github.com/wbailey/claws):

    # .claws.yml
    ---
    aws:
    access_key_id: __my_access_key__
    secret_access_key: __my_secret_key__
    ...



For [s3tools: s3cmd](http://s3tools.org/s3cmd)

    # .s3cfg

    [default]
    access_key = __my_access_key__
    secret_key = __my_secret_key__
    ...


### PS1 prompt


Try and add to your prompt:

    export PS1="\u@h:\w $(__awsenv_ps1)\n\$ "



### How it works


The following variables are manipulated:


    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID           # all API's
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY       # all API's
    AWS_CREDENTIAL_FILE         # for IAM.
    EC2_CERT                    # for EC2 api-tools and ami-tools
    EC2_PRIVATE_KEY             # idem, for EC2
    AWSENV_PROFILE              # is the basename of your current dir profile


A local *__'.aws'__* symlink is created in *__~/.aws__*. This symlink points
to your current profile.

All generated configs, if used, are kept in *__~/.aws__*. The original config
files are symlinked here.


### Resources


For an example of configuring all AWS command line API tools take a look at
this [gist](https://gist.github.com/4177779).



## License

License

Copyright (c) 2012-2013 Marcus Vinicius Ferreira

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.


    Marcus Vinicius Fereira
    2012-11

